The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial system.

Federal Open Market Committee


Monetary Policy Principles and Practice


Policy Implementation


Reports


Review of Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and Communications


Institution Supervision


Reports


Reporting Forms


Supervision & Regulation Letters


Banking Applications & Legal Developments


Regulatory Resources


Banking & Data Structure


Regulations & Statutes


Payment Policies


Reserve Bank Payment Services & Data


Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures


Research, Committees, and Forums


Working Papers and Notes


Models and Tools


Bank Assets and Liabilities


Bank Structure Data


Business Finance


Dealer Financing Terms


Exchange Rates and International Data


Financial Accounts


Household Finance


Industrial Activity


Interest Rates


Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)


Money Stock and Reserve Balances


Other


Regulations


Supervision & Enforcement


Community Development


Research & Analysis


Consumer Resources

May 10, 2006
For immediate release                     
                
                

Share

























The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 5 percent.
Economic growth has been quite strong so far this year. The Committee sees growth as likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices.
As yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities appears to have had only a modest effect on core inflation, ongoing productivity gains have helped to hold the growth of unit labor costs in check, and inflation expectations remain contained. Still, possible increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated prices of energy and other commodities, have the potential to add to inflation pressures.
The Committee judges that some further policy firming may yet be needed to address inflation risks but emphasizes that the extent and timing of any such firming will depend importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied by incoming information. In any event, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its objectives.
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Susan S. Bies; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; Kevin M. Warsh; and Janet L. Yellen.
In a related action, the Board of Governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 6 percent. In taking this action, the Board approved the requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco. 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551