The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial system.

Federal Open Market Committee


Monetary Policy Principles and Practice


Policy Implementation


Reports


Review of Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and Communications


Institution Supervision


Reports


Reporting Forms


Supervision & Regulation Letters


Banking Applications & Legal Developments


Regulatory Resources


Banking & Data Structure


Regulations & Statutes


Payment Policies


Reserve Bank Payment Services & Data


Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures


Research, Committees, and Forums


Working Papers and Notes


Models and Tools


Bank Assets and Liabilities


Bank Structure Data


Business Finance


Dealer Financing Terms


Exchange Rates and International Data


Financial Accounts


Household Finance


Industrial Activity


Interest Rates


Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)


Money Stock and Reserve Balances


Other


Regulations


Supervision & Enforcement


Community Development


Research & Analysis


Consumer Resources

August 17, 2007
For immediate release                     
                
                

Share

























Financial market conditions have deteriorated, and tighter credit conditions and increased uncertainty have the potential to restrain economic growth going forward. In these circumstances, although recent data suggest that the economy has continued to expand at a moderate pace, the Federal Open Market Committee judges that the downside risks to growth have increased appreciably. The Committee is monitoring the situation and is prepared to act as needed to mitigate the adverse effects on the economy arising from the disruptions in financial markets. 
Voting in favor of the policy announcement were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, Vice Chairman; Richard W. Fisher; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Frederic S. Mishkin; Michael H. Moskow; Eric Rosengren; and Kevin M. Warsh.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551