The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial system.

Federal Open Market Committee


Monetary Policy Principles and Practice


Policy Implementation


Reports


Review of Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and Communications


Institution Supervision


Reports


Reporting Forms


Supervision & Regulation Letters


Banking Applications & Legal Developments


Regulatory Resources


Banking & Data Structure


Regulations & Statutes


Payment Policies


Reserve Bank Payment Services & Data


Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures


Research, Committees, and Forums


Working Papers and Notes


Models and Tools


Bank Assets and Liabilities


Bank Structure Data


Business Finance


Dealer Financing Terms


Exchange Rates and International Data


Financial Accounts


Household Finance


Industrial Activity


Interest Rates


Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)


Money Stock and Reserve Balances


Other


Regulations


Supervision & Enforcement


Community Development


Research & Analysis


Consumer Resources

September 16, 2008
For immediate release                     
                
                

Share

























The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 2 percent.
Strains in financial markets have increased significantly and labor markets have weakened further. Economic growth appears to have slowed recently, partly reflecting a softening of household spending. Tight credit conditions, the ongoing housing contraction, and some slowing in export growth are likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters. Over time, the substantial easing of monetary policy, combined with ongoing measures to foster market liquidity, should help to promote moderate economic growth.
Inflation has been high, spurred by the earlier increases in the prices of energy and some other commodities. The Committee expects inflation to moderate later this year and next year, but the inflation outlook remains highly uncertain.
The downside risks to growth and the upside risks to inflation are both of significant concern to the Committee. The Committee will monitor economic and financial developments carefully and will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability.
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; Christine M. Cumming; Elizabeth A. Duke; Richard W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Sandra Pianalto; Charles I. Plosser; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh. Ms. Cumming voted as the alternate for Timothy F. Geithner.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551