The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial system.

Federal Open Market Committee


Monetary Policy Principles and Practice


Policy Implementation


Reports


Review of Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and Communications


Institution Supervision


Reports


Reporting Forms


Supervision & Regulation Letters


Banking Applications & Legal Developments


Regulatory Resources


Banking & Data Structure


Regulations & Statutes


Payment Policies


Reserve Bank Payment Services & Data


Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures


Research, Committees, and Forums


Working Papers and Notes


Models and Tools


Bank Assets and Liabilities


Bank Structure Data


Business Finance


Dealer Financing Terms


Exchange Rates and International Data


Financial Accounts


Household Finance


Industrial Activity


Interest Rates


Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)


Money Stock and Reserve Balances


Other


Regulations


Supervision & Enforcement


Community Development


Research & Analysis


Consumer Resources

March 18, 2009
For immediate release                     
                
                

Share

























Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January indicates that the economy continues to contract.  Job losses, declining equity and housing wealth, and tight credit conditions have weighed on consumer sentiment and spending.  Weaker sales prospects and difficulties in obtaining credit have led businesses to cut back on inventories and fixed investment.  U.S. exports have slumped as a number of major trading partners have also fallen into recession.  Although the near-term economic outlook is weak, the Committee anticipates that policy actions to stabilize financial markets and institutions, together with fiscal and monetary stimulus, will contribute to a gradual resumption of sustainable economic growth.
In light of increasing economic slack here and abroad, the Committee expects that inflation will remain subdued.  Moreover, the Committee sees some risk that inflation could persist for a time below rates that best foster economic growth and price stability in the longer term.
In these circumstances, the Federal Reserve will employ all available tools to promote economic recovery and to preserve price stability.  The Committee will maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and anticipates that economic conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period.  To provide greater support to mortgage lending and housing markets, the Committee decided today to increase the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet further by purchasing up to an additional $750 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities, bringing its total purchases of these securities to up to $1.25 trillion this year, and to increase its purchases of agency debt this year by up to $100 billion to a total of up to $200 billion.  Moreover, to help improve conditions in private credit markets, the Committee decided to purchase up to $300 billion of longer-term Treasury securities over the next six months.  The Federal Reserve has launched the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility to facilitate the extension of credit to households and small businesses and anticipates that the range of eligible collateral for this facility is likely to be expanded to include other financial assets.  The Committee will continue to carefully monitor the size and composition of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet in light of evolving financial and economic developments.
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Elizabeth A. Duke; Charles L. Evans; Donald L. Kohn; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Dennis P. Lockhart; Daniel K. Tarullo; Kevin M. Warsh; and Janet L. Yellen.  
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551