The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial system.

Federal Open Market Committee


Monetary Policy Principles and Practice


Policy Implementation


Reports


Review of Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and Communications


Institution Supervision


Reports


Reporting Forms


Supervision & Regulation Letters


Banking Applications & Legal Developments


Regulatory Resources


Banking & Data Structure


Regulations & Statutes


Payment Policies


Reserve Bank Payment Services & Data


Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures


Research, Committees, and Forums


Working Papers and Notes


Models and Tools


Bank Assets and Liabilities


Bank Structure Data


Business Finance


Dealer Financing Terms


Exchange Rates and International Data


Financial Accounts


Household Finance


Industrial Activity


Interest Rates


Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)


Money Stock and Reserve Balances


Other


Regulations


Supervision & Enforcement


Community Development


Research & Analysis


Consumer Resources

August 10, 2010
For immediate release                     
                
                

Share


























       Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicates that the pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed in recent months. Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit. Business spending on equipment and software is rising; however, investment in nonresidential structures continues to be weak and employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls. Housing starts remain at a depressed level. Bank lending has continued to contract. Nonetheless, the Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability, although the pace of economic recovery is likely to be more modest in the near term than had been anticipated.
    

       Measures of underlying inflation have trended lower in recent quarters and, with substantial resource slack continuing to restrain cost pressures and longer-term inflation expectations stable, inflation is likely to be subdued for some time.
    

       The Committee will maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period.
    

       To help support the economic recovery in a context of price stability, the Committee will keep constant the Federal Reserve's holdings of securities at their current level by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in longer-term Treasury securities.1 The Committee will continue to roll over the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities as they mature.
    

       The Committee will continue to monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic recovery and price stability.
    

       Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; James Bullard; Elizabeth A. Duke; Donald L. Kohn; Sandra Pianalto; Eric S. Rosengren; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Kevin M. Warsh.
    

       Voting against the policy was Thomas M. Hoenig, who judges that the economy is recovering modestly, as projected. Accordingly, he believed that continuing to express the expectation of exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period was no longer warranted and limits the Committee's ability to adjust policy when needed. In addition, given economic and financial conditions, Mr. Hoenig did not believe that keeping constant the size of the Federal Reserve's holdings of longer-term securities at their current level was required to support a return to the Committee's policy objectives.
    

        
    

1. The Open Market Desk will issue a technical note shortly after the statement providing operational details on how it will carry out these transactions. Return to text

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551